README.md, before:

# Rose-Hulman Authentication API

![Server](https://img.shields.io/badge/server-v2.0.0-red.svg)
[![Android](https://img.shields.io/badge/android-v1.3.0-brightgreen.svg)](#android)
[![iOS](https://img.shields.io/badge/ios-v1.1.0-blue.svg)](#ios)
[![Javascript](https://img.shields.io/badge/javascript-v1.0.1-orange.svg)](#javascript)
[![Python](https://img.shields.io/badge/python-v1.1.0-yellow.svg)](#python)
[![Java](https://img.shields.io/badge/java-v1.1.0-green.svg)](#java)

This is a simple service that authenticates Rose-Hulman students via LDAP and returns a [Firebase Custom Auth Token](https://www.firebase.com/docs/web/guide/login/custom.html).

## TL;DR

Start [here](#client-libraries) if you're a [TL;DR](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Too_long;_didn%27t_read) kind of person, otherwise, start reading about the endpoints.

Get a registry token from here: [https://rosefire.csse.rose-hulman.edu](https://rosefire.csse.rose-hulman.edu) then skip down to [Client Libraries](https://github.com/rockwotj/rosefire/#client-libraries) to see how to integrate this into your Firebase app.

## Production Use

Tokens recieved from this service will have the following fields, which can accessed in your firebase rules. More information about this can be found in [Firebase's Custom Auth Documentation](https://www.firebase.com/docs/web/guide/login/custom.html).

```
{
  "uid": (String) the Rose username of the user,
  "provider": (String) 'rose-hulman',
  "group": (String, Optional) either 'STUDENT', 'INSTRUCTOR', or 'OTHER'
}
```

### Endpoints

The hostname for this service is `rosefire.csse.rose-hulman.edu`, it is available outside Rose-Hulman's firewall. Please only use this software for good.

#### POST `/api/register/`

A post request to `/api/register/` requires the following parameters in the JSON body of the request. The email and password is who the project will be registered under. 

```json
{
  "email": "rockwotj@rose-hulman.edu",
  "password": "Pas$w0rd", 
  "secret": "<FIREBASE SECRET HERE>"
}
```

This will then return a JSON object like the following.

```
{
  "username": "rockwotj",
  "timestamp": 2342134323, // Seconds since the epoch
  "registryToken": "<YOUR REGISTRY TOKEN HERE>"
}
```

Note: When the person who the project is registered under is authenticated via the `/api/auth/` endpoint, they have full read-write access to the entire firebase repo by default. This can be disabled by explictly setting admin option to false in the `/api/auth/` endpoint. No one else is allowed to have admin access for security reasons.

#### POST `/api/auth/`

A post request to `/api/auth/` requires the following parameters in the JSON body of the request. The options field and all of that object's fields are completely optional and not required.

```json
{
  "email": "user@rose-hulman.edu",
  "password": "Pas$w0rd", 
  "registryToken": "<REGISTRY TOKEN HERE>",
  "options": {
    "group": false,
    "expires": 12340192830,
    "notBefore": 1234234134,
    "admin": false
  }
}
```

These are the options for the endpoint, more information can be found [here](https://github.com/firebase/firebase-token-generator-node#token-options).

* <b>expires</b>: (Integer) A timestamp of when the token is invalid.
* <b>notBefore</b>: (Integer) A timestamp of when the token should start being valid.
* <b>admin</b>: (Boolean) If true, then all security rules are disabled for this user. This can only be true for the user who the token is registred with.
* <b>group</b>: (Boolean) If true, then 'STUDENT' or 'INSTRUCTOR' group will be looked up using LDAP. Please note that is causes the request to be about four times longer with this set to true.

This endpoint returns an object that looks like this

```json
{
  "token": "<Auth token for user@rose-hulman.edu>",
  "timestamp": "<ISO formatted timestamp>",
  "username": "user"
}
```

#### Endpoint Errors

If there is an error during a request for any endpoint then the response will look like this

```json
{
  "error": "error message",
  "status": "HTTP Status code of the error"
}
```

## Client Libraries

There are client libraries available to more easily integrate this into your code or read this if you're a [TL;DR](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Too_long;_didn%27t_read) kind of person.

### Android

[![Android](https://img.shields.io/badge/android-v1.3.0-brightgreen.svg)](https://jitpack.io/#rockwotj/rosefire/android-v1.3.0)

**Step 1:** Add jitpack in your build.gradle at the end of repositories:

```gradle
android {
  ... (other stuff)
  
  repositories {
    maven { url "https://jitpack.io" }
  }
}
```

**Step 2:** Add the dependency in the form:
```gradle
dependencies {
  compile 'com.github.rockwotj:rosefire:android-v1.3.0'
}
```

**Step 3:** Authenticate a Rose-Hulman User with Firebase

```java
Firebase myFirebaseRef = new Firebase("https://myproject.firebaseio.com");
RosefireAuth roseAuth = new RosefireAuth(myFirebaseRef, "<REGISTRY_TOKEN>");
roseAuth.authWithRoseHulman("rockwotj@rose-hulman.edu", "Pa$sW0rd", new Firebase.AuthResultHandler() {
    @Override
    public void onAuthenticated(AuthData authData) {
        // Show logged in UI
    }

    @Override
    public void onAuthenticationError(FirebaseError firebaseError) {
        // Show Login Error
  }
});
```

### iOS

![iOS](https://img.shields.io/badge/ios-v1.1.0-blue.svg)

**Step 1:** For either Objective-C or Swift projects add rosefire as a dependancy in your cocoapods:

```ruby
pod 'Rosefire', :git => 'https://github.com/rockwotj/rosefire.git', :tag => 'ios-v1.1.0'
```

Then run `pod install`

#### Swift Projects

**Step 2:** Import Firebase and Rosefire in your bridging header:

```objc
#import <Firebase/Firebase.h>
#import <Rosefire/Rosefire.h>
```

**Step 3:** Authenticate a Rose-Hulman User with Firebase:

```swift
let myFirebaseRef = Firebase(url: "https://myproject.firebaseio.com")
myFirebaseRef.authWithRoseHulman("<REGISTRY_TOKEN>", email: "rockwotj@rose-hulman.edu", password: "Pa$sW0rd") {
  (err, authData) -> Void in
    if err == nil {
      // Show logged in UI
    } else {
      // Show login error
    }
}

```

#### Objective-C Projects

**Step 2:** Import Firebase and Rosefire in the file you're using it
```objc
#import <Firebase/Firebase.h>
#import <Rosefire/Rosefire.h>
```

**Step 3:** Authenticate a Rose-Hulman User with Firebase:

```objc
Firebase* myFirebaseRef = [[Firebase alloc] initWithUrl:@"https://myproject.firebaseio.com"];
[myFirebaseRef authWithRoseHulman:@"<REGISTRY_TOKEN>"
                            email:@"rockwotj@rose-hulman.edu"
                         password:@"Pa$sW0rd"
              withCompletionBlock:^(NSError * err, FAuthData * authData) {
    if (!err) {
        // Show logged in UI
    } else {
        // Show login error
    }
}];
```

### Javascript

![Javascript](https://img.shields.io/badge/javascript-v1.0.1-orange.svg)

**Step 1:** You either need to include this script tag, OR download the file and host it on your server. Either way you need to reference this file. Make sure you include this AFTER Firebase.

```html
<!-- Include Firebase First! -->
<script src="https://cdn.rawgit.com/rockwotj/rosefire/js-v1.0.1/dist/js/rosefire.min.js"></script>
```

**Step 2:** You're all ready to authenticate if you use [Firebase's plain javascript SDK](https://www.firebase.com/docs/web/api/).

```javascript
var myFirebaseRef = new Firebase("https://myproject.firebaseio.com");
myFirebaseRef.authWithRoseHulman("<REGISTRY_TOKEN>", "rockwotj@rose-hulman.edu", "Pa$sW0rd", function(err, authData) {
  if (err) {
    // User not logged in!
  } else {
    // User logged in successfully 
  }
});
```

**Optional Step:** If you're using Angularfire or some other wrapper around firebase, you'll want to use the globally attached `Rosefire.getToken` function (example using [AngularFire](https://www.firebase.com/docs/web/libraries/angular/quickstart.html), although make sure you follow [best practices](https://www.firebase.com/docs/web/libraries/angular/guide/beyond-angularfire.html)).

```javascript
app.controller("MyAuthCtrl", ["$firebaseAuth", "$window",
  function($firebaseAuth, $window) {
    var ref = new Firebase("https://<YOUR-FIREBASE-APP>.firebaseio.com");
    var data = {
      registryToken: "<REGISTRY_TOKEN>", 
      email: "rockwotj@rose-hulman.edu", 
      password: "Pa$sW0rd"
    };
    $window.Rosefire.getToken(data, function(err, token) {
      if (err) {
        // User not logged in!
        return;
      }
      $firebaseAuth(ref).$authWithCustomToken(token)
      .then(function(authData) {
        // User logged in successfully 
      }).catch(function(error) {
        // User not logged in!
      });
    }
  }
]);

```

## Server Side Use and Libraries

Want to use Rose-Hulman Authentication on your server without learning about LDAP? Feel free to use Rosefire as a [microservice](http://martinfowler.com/articles/microservices.html) for authentication and these libraries to make your life easier. 

If you use these libraries, you can either do everything server-side, or you get fetch the tokens using the client libraries, then pass the returned token to your backend and decrypt it on your server. In this case, the SECRET that you use when you [register](https://rosefire.csse.rose-hulman.edu) is whatever you want, but you'll need to use it as a key on your server.

NOTE: You can currently get tokens on all platforms except ios. You'll need to use the [java libary](#java) on Android to get tokens without going through Firebase.

### A Note About Security

**IMPORTANT:** Because token verifier requires your secret, you should only verifiy
tokens on *trusted servers*. Never embed your Secret directly into your application and
never share your Secret with a connected client. Only your registry token is safe to share with clients.


### Python

[![Python](https://img.shields.io/badge/python-v1.1.0-yellow.svg)](#python)

**Step 1**: The library is installable as a pip package. Install it using the below command.

```shell
pip install https://github.com/rockwotj/rosefire/archive/python-v1.1.0.zip
```

**Step 2**: Get a token from rosefire (via client libraries or on the server) then verify the contents of the JWT created from Rosefire. The below example is using [webapp2](https://webapp-improved.appspot.com/), please note that you'll want to do more error checking, as both the get_token and verify functions can throw Exceptions.



```python
class MainHandler(webapp2.RequestHandler):
    def get(self):
        rosefire_token = self.request.cookies.get('rosefire_token')
        if rosefire_token:
            auth_data = RosefireTokenVerifier(SECRET).verify(rosefire_token)
            self.response.write("You're logged in as: " + auth_data.email)
        else:
            self.response.write(login_form)

    def post(self):
        email = self.request.get("email")
        password = self.request.get("password")
        token = rosefire.get_token(REGISTRY_TOKEN, email, password)
        self.response.set_cookie('rosefire_token', token, max_age=360, path='/')
        self.redirect("/")
```


To get this working on GAE you need to follow [these instructions](https://cloud.google.com/appengine/docs/python/tools/libraries27?hl=en#vendoring) to get third party libraries to work.

### Java

[![Java](https://img.shields.io/badge/java-v1.1.0-green.svg)](#java)

**Step 1**: Add jitpack as a maven repo to either your pom.xml or your build.gradle

```maven
<repositories>
	<repository>
    		<id>jitpack.io</id>
    		<url>https://jitpack.io</url>
	</repository>
</repositories>
```

```gradle
repositories {
    maven { url "https://jitpack.io" }
}
```

**Step 2**: Add the rosefire java library as a dependancy of this library.

```maven
<dependency>
	<groupId>com.github.rockwotj</groupId>
	<artifactId>rosefire</artifactId>
	<version>java-v1.1.0</version>
</dependency>
```

```gradle
dependencies {
  compile 'com.github.rockwotj:rosefire:java-v1.1.0'
}
```

**Step 3**: Get a token from rosefire (via client libraries or on the server) then verify the contents of the JWT created from Rosefire. The below example is using a servlet.

```java

public class MainServlet extends HttpServlet {
   	@Override
	public void doGet(HttpServletRequest request, HttpServletResponse response)
               throws IOException, ServletException {
		String token = request.getParameter("rosefire_token");
		// OR use the below code on your server if you have a login form and you're sending the email and 
		// password in a POST request.
		// token = new RosefireAuth(REGISTRY_TOKEN).getToken("rockwotj@rose-hulman.edu", "Pa$sw0rd");

		// Now verify the token you got
		RosefireTokenVerifier verifier = new RosefireTokenVerifier(SECRET);

		AuthData decodedToken = null;
		try {
			decodedToken = verifier.verify(token);
		} catch (RosefireError e) {
			response.sendError(HttpServletResponse.SC_UNAUTHORIZED, "Invalid Token");
			return;
		}
	
		decodedToken.getUsername(); // "rockwotj"
		decodedToken.getIssuedAt(); // Timestamp of when logged in (Use this to determine session length)
	
		if (oneDayOld(decodedToken.getIssuedAt())) {
			response.sendError(HttpServletResponse.SC_UNAUTHORIZED, "Old Token");
			return;
		}
	
		PrintWriter out = response.getWriter();
      		try {
        		out.println("You're logged in as: " + decodedToken.getUsername());
      		} finally {
        		out.close();  // Always close the output writer
      		}
   	}
}

```

## Production Setup

This is a simple nodejs app, managed by [Forever](https://github.com/foreverjs/forever) that is reverse proxied by nginx. This app also uses [Let's Encrypt](https://letsencrypt.org/) to acquire SSL certificates.

To manage the production app, just checkout `~/README` and it should explain everything. The server should automatically be started on reboot.

Commit message:

Moved to newer es6 features

README.md, after:

# Rose-Hulman Authentication API

![Server](https://img.shields.io/badge/server-v2.0.0-red.svg)
[![Android](https://img.shields.io/badge/android-v1.3.0-brightgreen.svg)](#android)
[![iOS](https://img.shields.io/badge/ios-v1.1.0-blue.svg)](#ios)
[![Javascript](https://img.shields.io/badge/javascript-v1.0.1-orange.svg)](#javascript)
[![Python](https://img.shields.io/badge/python-v1.1.0-yellow.svg)](#python)
[![Java](https://img.shields.io/badge/java-v1.1.0-green.svg)](#java)

This is a simple service that authenticates Rose-Hulman students via LDAP and returns a [Firebase Custom Auth Token](https://www.firebase.com/docs/web/guide/login/custom.html).

## TL;DR

Start [here](#client-libraries) if you're a [TL;DR](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Too_long;_didn%27t_read) kind of person, otherwise, start reading about the endpoints.

Get a registry token from here: [https://rosefire.csse.rose-hulman.edu](https://rosefire.csse.rose-hulman.edu) then skip down to [Client Libraries](https://github.com/rockwotj/rosefire/#client-libraries) to see how to integrate this into your Firebase app.

## Production Use

Tokens recieved from this service will have the following fields, which can accessed in your firebase rules. More information about this can be found in [Firebase's Custom Auth Documentation](https://www.firebase.com/docs/web/guide/login/custom.html).

```
{
  "uid": (String) the Rose username of the user,
  "provider": (String) 'rose-hulman',
  "group": (String, Optional) either 'STUDENT', 'INSTRUCTOR', or 'OTHER'
}
```

### Endpoints

The hostname for this service is `rosefire.csse.rose-hulman.edu`, it is available outside Rose-Hulman's firewall. Please only use this software for good.

#### POST `/api/register/`

A post request to `/api/register/` requires the following parameters in the JSON body of the request. The email and password is who the project will be registered under. 

```json
{
  "email": "rockwotj@rose-hulman.edu",
  "password": "Pas$w0rd", 
  "secret": "<FIREBASE SECRET HERE>"
}
```

This will then return a JSON object like the following.

```
{
  "username": "rockwotj",
  "timestamp": 2342134323, // Seconds since the epoch
  "registryToken": "<YOUR REGISTRY TOKEN HERE>"
}
```

Note: When the person who the project is registered under is authenticated via the `/api/auth/` endpoint, they have full read-write access to the entire firebase repo by default. This can be disabled by explictly setting admin option to false in the `/api/auth/` endpoint. No one else is allowed to have admin access for security reasons.

#### POST `/api/auth/`

A post request to `/api/auth/` requires the following parameters in the JSON body of the request. The options field and all of that object's fields are completely optional and not required.

```json
{
  "email": "user@rose-hulman.edu",
  "password": "Pas$w0rd", 
  "registryToken": "<REGISTRY TOKEN HERE>",
  "options": {
    "group": false,
    "expires": 12340192830,
    "notBefore": 1234234134,
    "admin": false
  }
}
```

These are the options for the endpoint, more information can be found [here](https://github.com/firebase/firebase-token-generator-node#token-options).

* <b>expires</b>: (Integer) A timestamp of when the token is invalid.
* <b>notBefore</b>: (Integer) A timestamp of when the token should start being valid.
* <b>admin</b>: (Boolean) If true, then all security rules are disabled for this user. This can only be true for the user who the token is registred with.
* <b>group</b>: (Boolean) If true, then 'STUDENT' or 'INSTRUCTOR' group will be looked up using LDAP. Please note that is causes the request to be about four times longer with this set to true.

This endpoint returns an object that looks like this

```json
{
  "token": "<Auth token for user@rose-hulman.edu>",
  "timestamp": "<ISO formatted timestamp>",
  "username": "user"
}
```

#### Endpoint Errors

If there is an error during a request for any endpoint then the response will look like this

```json
{
  "error": "error message",
  "status": "HTTP Status code of the error"
}
```

## Client Libraries

There are client libraries available to more easily integrate this into your code or read this if you're a [TL;DR](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Too_long;_didn%27t_read) kind of person.

### Android

[![Android](https://img.shields.io/badge/android-v1.3.0-brightgreen.svg)](https://jitpack.io/#rockwotj/rosefire/android-v1.3.0)

**Step 1:** Add jitpack in your build.gradle at the end of repositories:

```gradle
android {
  ... (other stuff)
  
  repositories {
    maven { url "https://jitpack.io" }
  }
}
```

**Step 2:** Add the dependency in the form:
```gradle
dependencies {
  compile 'com.github.rockwotj:rosefire:android-v1.3.0'
}
```

**Step 3:** Authenticate a Rose-Hulman User with Firebase

```java
Firebase myFirebaseRef = new Firebase("https://myproject.firebaseio.com");
RosefireAuth roseAuth = new RosefireAuth(myFirebaseRef, "<REGISTRY_TOKEN>");
roseAuth.authWithRoseHulman("rockwotj@rose-hulman.edu", "Pa$sW0rd", new Firebase.AuthResultHandler() {
    @Override
    public void onAuthenticated(AuthData authData) {
        // Show logged in UI
    }

    @Override
    public void onAuthenticationError(FirebaseError firebaseError) {
        // Show Login Error
  }
});
```

### iOS

![iOS](https://img.shields.io/badge/ios-v1.1.0-blue.svg)

**Step 1:** For either Objective-C or Swift projects add rosefire as a dependancy in your cocoapods:

```ruby
pod 'Rosefire', :git => 'https://github.com/rockwotj/rosefire.git', :tag => 'ios-v1.1.0'
```

Then run `pod install`

#### Swift Projects

**Step 2:** Import Firebase and Rosefire in your bridging header:

```objc
#import <Firebase/Firebase.h>
#import <Rosefire/Rosefire.h>
```

**Step 3:** Authenticate a Rose-Hulman User with Firebase:

```swift
let myFirebaseRef = Firebase(url: "https://myproject.firebaseio.com")
myFirebaseRef.authWithRoseHulman("<REGISTRY_TOKEN>", email: "rockwotj@rose-hulman.edu", password: "Pa$sW0rd") {
  (err, authData) -> Void in
    if err == nil {
      // Show logged in UI
    } else {
      // Show login error
    }
}

```

#### Objective-C Projects

**Step 2:** Import Firebase and Rosefire in the file you're using it
```objc
#import <Firebase/Firebase.h>
#import <Rosefire/Rosefire.h>
```

**Step 3:** Authenticate a Rose-Hulman User with Firebase:

```objc
Firebase* myFirebaseRef = [[Firebase alloc] initWithUrl:@"https://myproject.firebaseio.com"];
[myFirebaseRef authWithRoseHulman:@"<REGISTRY_TOKEN>"
                            email:@"rockwotj@rose-hulman.edu"
                         password:@"Pa$sW0rd"
              withCompletionBlock:^(NSError * err, FAuthData * authData) {
    if (!err) {
        // Show logged in UI
    } else {
        // Show login error
    }
}];
```

### Javascript

![Javascript](https://img.shields.io/badge/javascript-v1.0.1-orange.svg)

**Step 1:** You either need to include this script tag, OR download the file and host it on your server. Either way you need to reference this file. Make sure you include this AFTER Firebase.

```html
<!-- Include Firebase First! -->
<script src="https://cdn.rawgit.com/rockwotj/rosefire/js-v1.0.1/dist/js/rosefire.min.js"></script>
```

**Step 2:** You're all ready to authenticate if you use [Firebase's plain javascript SDK](https://www.firebase.com/docs/web/api/).

```javascript
var myFirebaseRef = new Firebase("https://myproject.firebaseio.com");
myFirebaseRef.authWithRoseHulman("<REGISTRY_TOKEN>", "rockwotj@rose-hulman.edu", "Pa$sW0rd", function(err, authData) {
  if (err) {
    // User not logged in!
  } else {
    // User logged in successfully 
  }
});
```

**Optional Step:** If you're using Angularfire or some other wrapper around firebase, you'll want to use the globally attached `Rosefire.getToken` function (example using [AngularFire](https://www.firebase.com/docs/web/libraries/angular/quickstart.html), although make sure you follow [best practices](https://www.firebase.com/docs/web/libraries/angular/guide/beyond-angularfire.html)).

```javascript
app.controller("MyAuthCtrl", ["$firebaseAuth", "$window",
  function($firebaseAuth, $window) {
    var ref = new Firebase("https://<YOUR-FIREBASE-APP>.firebaseio.com");
    var data = {
      registryToken: "<REGISTRY_TOKEN>", 
      email: "rockwotj@rose-hulman.edu", 
      password: "Pa$sW0rd"
    };
    $window.Rosefire.getToken(data, function(err, token) {
      if (err) {
        // User not logged in!
        return;
      }
      $firebaseAuth(ref).$authWithCustomToken(token)
      .then(function(authData) {
        // User logged in successfully 
      }).catch(function(error) {
        // User not logged in!
      });
    }
  }
]);

```

## Server Side Use and Libraries

Want to use Rose-Hulman Authentication on your server without learning about LDAP? Feel free to use Rosefire as a [microservice](http://martinfowler.com/articles/microservices.html) for authentication and these libraries to make your life easier. 

If you use these libraries, you can either do everything server-side, or you get fetch the tokens using the client libraries, then pass the returned token to your backend and decrypt it on your server. In this case, the SECRET that you use when you [register](https://rosefire.csse.rose-hulman.edu) is whatever you want, but you'll need to use it as a key on your server.

NOTE: You can currently get tokens on all platforms except ios. You'll need to use the [java libary](#java) on Android to get tokens without going through Firebase.

### A Note About Security

**IMPORTANT:** Because token verifier requires your secret, you should only verifiy
tokens on *trusted servers*. Never embed your Secret directly into your application and
never share your Secret with a connected client. Only your registry token is safe to share with clients.


### Python

[![Python](https://img.shields.io/badge/python-v1.1.0-yellow.svg)](#python)

**Step 1**: The library is installable as a pip package. Install it using the below command.

```shell
pip install https://github.com/rockwotj/rosefire/archive/python-v1.1.0.zip
```

**Step 2**: Get a token from rosefire (via client libraries or on the server) then verify the contents of the JWT created from Rosefire. The below example is using [webapp2](https://webapp-improved.appspot.com/), please note that you'll want to do more error checking, as both the get_token and verify functions can throw Exceptions.



```python
class MainHandler(webapp2.RequestHandler):
    def get(self):
        rosefire_token = self.request.cookies.get('rosefire_token')
        if rosefire_token:
            auth_data = RosefireTokenVerifier(SECRET).verify(rosefire_token)
            self.response.write("You're logged in as: " + auth_data.email)
        else:
            self.response.write(login_form)

    def post(self):
        email = self.request.get("email")
        password = self.request.get("password")
        token = rosefire.get_token(REGISTRY_TOKEN, email, password)
        self.response.set_cookie('rosefire_token', token, max_age=360, path='/')
        self.redirect("/")
```


To get this working on GAE you need to follow [these instructions](https://cloud.google.com/appengine/docs/python/tools/libraries27?hl=en#vendoring) to get third party libraries to work.

### Java

[![Java](https://img.shields.io/badge/java-v1.1.0-green.svg)](#java)

**Step 1**: Add jitpack as a maven repo to either your pom.xml or your build.gradle

```maven
<repositories>
	<repository>
    		<id>jitpack.io</id>
    		<url>https://jitpack.io</url>
	</repository>
</repositories>
```

```gradle
repositories {
    maven { url "https://jitpack.io" }
}
```

**Step 2**: Add the rosefire java library as a dependancy of this library.

```maven
<dependency>
	<groupId>com.github.rockwotj</groupId>
	<artifactId>rosefire</artifactId>
	<version>java-v1.1.0</version>
</dependency>
```

```gradle
dependencies {
  compile 'com.github.rockwotj:rosefire:java-v1.1.0'
}
```

**Step 3**: Get a token from rosefire (via client libraries or on the server) then verify the contents of the JWT created from Rosefire. The below example is using a servlet.

```java

public class MainServlet extends HttpServlet {
   	@Override
	public void doGet(HttpServletRequest request, HttpServletResponse response)
               throws IOException, ServletException {
		String token = request.getParameter("rosefire_token");
		// OR use the below code on your server if you have a login form and you're sending the email and 
		// password in a POST request.
		// token = new RosefireAuth(REGISTRY_TOKEN).getToken("rockwotj@rose-hulman.edu", "Pa$sw0rd");

		// Now verify the token you got
		RosefireTokenVerifier verifier = new RosefireTokenVerifier(SECRET);

		AuthData decodedToken = null;
		try {
			decodedToken = verifier.verify(token);
		} catch (RosefireError e) {
			response.sendError(HttpServletResponse.SC_UNAUTHORIZED, "Invalid Token");
			return;
		}
	
		decodedToken.getUsername(); // "rockwotj"
		decodedToken.getIssuedAt(); // Timestamp of when logged in (Use this to determine session length)
	
		if (oneDayOld(decodedToken.getIssuedAt())) {
			response.sendError(HttpServletResponse.SC_UNAUTHORIZED, "Old Token");
			return;
		}
	
		PrintWriter out = response.getWriter();
      		try {
        		out.println("You're logged in as: " + decodedToken.getUsername());
      		} finally {
        		out.close();  // Always close the output writer
      		}
   	}
}

```

## Production Setup

This is a simple nodejs app, managed by [Forever](https://github.com/foreverjs/forever) that is reverse proxied by nginx. This app also uses [Let's Encrypt](https://letsencrypt.org/) to acquire SSL certificates.

This node app uses some es6 features that need to be enabled on boot. As of node 5.4 you need to run the server via: `node --harmony_destructuring server.js` 

To manage the production app, just checkout `~/README` and it should explain everything. The server should automatically be started on reboot.
